README.md, before:

# Summer R learning materials

These materials were developed and presented for the Summer R series at the University of Pittsburgh's Physician Scientist Training Program.

The repository is organized as follows:

| Directory    | Contents |
| --- | --- |
| `homework/`  | Homework assignments (currently there are two), Quarto notebooks   |
| `ica/`       | In-class assignments, Quarto notebooks                             |
| [`markdown/`](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/tree/main/markdown)  | [Markdown versions of materials for easy browsing on GitHub](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/tree/main/markdown) |
| `sessions/`  | Materials collocated according to each session                     |
| `slides/`    | Presentation slides, written as Quarto notebooks and revealjs html |

Most example data come from the [{medicaldata}](https://higgi13425.github.io/medicaldata/) package.

## Syllabus

### Learning goals

1.  Transfer tabular data into and out of R
2.  Examine and make sense of data (at the level of descriptive statistics)
3.  Visualize data according to what kind of data you have, and what you want to show
4.  Manipulate and restructure data so that it can be analyzed (also called "data cleaning")
5.  Write reproducible cleaning tasks, analyses, and plots for sharing with colleagues (and your future self)
6.  Utilize R documentation to solve problems and explore possibilities
7.  Gain an understanding of the R packages ecosystem

### Schedule and topics studied

| Session  | Topics |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | RStudio orientation; using R for simple calculations; loading and saving data; data types and structures; R packages; R notebooks. |
| 2 | Working with data frames: descriptive statistics; filtering and sorting; selecting and ordering variables; grouping. Data viz: base R plots (histogram, bar, scatter). |
| 3 | Data viz: ggplot2 and the grammar of graphics, common plots. Rendering notebooks to different formats. |
| 4 | Handling missing data; adding new variables to a data frame; joining tables. Time permitting: working with dates; working with string data. Data viz: missingness; faceting (small multiples). |
| 5 | Handling categorical variables (recoding and reordering); pivoting columns and rows; checking a variable for Normality; introductory inference. Data viz: output options and image formats; annotations; Q-Q plots. |

These materials are licensed for reuse under a [CC BY-NC (Attribution-NonCommercial) 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).

Commit message:

add slide links to syllabus

README.md, after:

# Summer R learning materials

These materials were developed and presented for the Summer R series at the University of Pittsburgh's Physician Scientist Training Program.

The repository is organized as follows:

| Directory    | Contents |
| --- | --- |
| `homework/`  | Homework assignments (currently there are two), Quarto notebooks   |
| `ica/`       | In-class assignments, Quarto notebooks                             |
| [`markdown/`](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/tree/main/markdown)  | [Markdown and PDF versions of materials for easy browsing on GitHub](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/tree/main/markdown) |
| `sessions/`  | Materials collocated according to each session                     |
| `slides/`    | Presentation slides, written as Quarto notebooks and revealjs html |

Most example data come from the [{medicaldata}](https://higgi13425.github.io/medicaldata/) package.

## Syllabus

### Learning goals

1.  Transfer tabular data into and out of R
2.  Examine and make sense of data (at the level of descriptive statistics)
3.  Visualize data according to what kind of data you have, and what you want to show
4.  Manipulate and restructure data so that it can be analyzed (also called "data cleaning")
5.  Write reproducible cleaning tasks, analyses, and plots for sharing with colleagues (and your future self)
6.  Utilize R documentation to solve problems and explore possibilities
7.  Gain an understanding of the R packages ecosystem

### Schedule and topics studied

| Session  | Topics | Links |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | RStudio orientation; using R for simple calculations; loading and saving data; data types and structures; R packages; R notebooks. | [slides](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/blob/main/markdown/slides-session-1.pdf) |
| 2 | Working with data frames: descriptive statistics; filtering and sorting; selecting and ordering variables; grouping. Data viz: base R plots (histogram, bar, scatter). | [slides](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/blob/main/markdown/slides-session-2.pdf) |
| 3 | Data viz: ggplot2 and the grammar of graphics, common plots. Rendering notebooks to different formats. | [slides](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/blob/main/markdown/slides-session-3.pdf) |
| 4 | Handling missing data; adding new variables to a data frame; joining tables. Time permitting: working with dates; working with string data. Data viz: missingness; faceting (small multiples). | [slides](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/blob/main/markdown/slides-session-4.pdf) |
| 5 | Handling categorical variables (recoding and reordering); pivoting columns and rows; checking a variable for Normality; introductory inference. Data viz: output options and image formats; annotations; Q-Q plots. | [slides](https://github.com/dojobo/summer-r-2023/blob/main/markdown/slides-session-5.pdf) |

These materials are licensed for reuse under a [CC BY-NC (Attribution-NonCommercial) 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).
